Hey, and welcome back to Logik
Academy Pro and Flame
for Nuke Artists.
So as I promised in the last class,
this time we're going
to finally delve into the image
and bring all those pieces together.
So everything you learned about
the G mask trace,
but also about the diamond keyer.
And of course, the mask right from
last class will now be put together.
So without much further ado,
let's dive into batch.
So let's pull out an image node
from the effects nodes.
Bend and connect it
up to our footage.
And from the looks of it.
This doesn't look too different
from any other general node
you can pull from the effects
nodes been.
But as you remember, probably from
the introduction of action way back
when I called this one of the three
human nodes inside of Flame.
So let's dissect this one by one.
If we had a four and open up
the tool.
This almost looks like
the master grade from the last class.
And this is to be expected
because the mask,
the grade is now applied
not as a node, but as a shader
inside of this image toolset.
How does this make any sense?
Well, let's pull back a bit.
Image is based on the action toolset.
Now action is the 3D compositing
environment of Flame,
where you can also apply shaders
and the mask,
the grade being, a matchbox shader
being one of them.
So for everything you see from
now on,
always try to keep in your mind
this is just action
with a little bit
of different controls to suit this.
For grading tasks,
the first
thing I want to draw
your attention to is the HUD up here.
So by default
you always get a primary color
correction,
a first selective to build on.
But there much more
I think you can apply up to 48
selective color corrections
inside the single node.
And then you've got a general kind
of post-processing output selection
there as well.
So these three primary selective
one and output
are the first ones to work on.
So if we want to give this
a primary grade, we can do that.
So just select the primary
and do your color correction.
So this is lock material.
Let's switch our controls to lock
and then we can give this
a very basic
first grade.
So maybe something like that.
So this
is not too different from what we did
in the last class.
And if you familiarize yourself
with the controls there,
then this shouldn't be too difficult.
However, now
we want to apply selectively.
So to do that,
just click the selective
one in the hut
and you'll see our interface change.
Now you are in what you call
the Selective Controls panel.
And by the way, this is where
you can see the numbers of selective
that are available to you
so you can jump through those.
And there are those 48 selectors
I talked about.
I got my first selective selected,
but I haven't told Flame
yet how
I actually want to do the separation.
How do I want to make a selective to
then color correct on.
We've got a couple of tools
that we can use
to actually achieve
this selection or separation.
Let's start by something
really, really simple,
and that would be a G mask.
So with selective one selected right
click in the center
of your image and choose
at the mask link.
And I'm going to go with an ellipse
just to do a basic vignette
on our very first selection.
So by clicking
that and pulling that up,
you're drawing up
exactly the same shape as you would
in the
G mask tracer if you choose the
G mask ellipse there
and using the same shortcut.
A you can also add
a gradient point like that.
So that is our selectivity find.
The only thing we should
probably do is inverted
because we probably want to,
bring down the,
the highlights in the outer rim area
instead of the inner circle.
So I'm going to hit invert and then
how do I get to my actual
grading controls?
Well,
there are two possibilities for that.
The first one is automatically
Flame will put a master grade
to each
and every selective that you define.
You can change that.
You can apply differentiators
as well as mask.
The grade is
just one of many matchbox shaders,
but by default
it'll always apply a mask that great.
And for now this is what
we're going to keep using.
So you just change to that tap.
And there
we are back in our familiar controls.
And if I now bring down the lift,
I can bring down the brightness there
and thereby apply my vignette.
So if I go to my source image,
I see the completely uncorrected
raw footage.
If I had a four, I see the result.
And with selective one selected
hitting H
I can just hide this
selective like so.
So I see it
with or without my vignette.
The second option you've got
to switch between your selective
and your actual mask.
The great is to use
the single dropdown
menu here and change that to double.
So that way
you will have your selective
on the left hand side of the panel
and a somewhat reduced
version of the mask.
Look right on the right hand side,
not in functionality.
It's all there.
So you've got your curves,
you've got your tones,
you've got your primaries,
but you're going to go
without the prime tone combined panel
and you'll have to do much
more switching between menus.
So this is a little bit of a
drawback of this, but it is there
if you want to constantly switch
between refining your selective
and adjusting your grade,
that might be an option.
There
is actually a third way to switch
between the selective and the grade
And actually
every component of your grade,
and that is by using the schematic.
Now, this is something that you're
most likely
not see in a lot of official
Autodesk documentation
and also training material.
And that is because the image toolset
is also designed
to be driven by a controlled surface,
like a tangent wave or element
or something like that.
And a schematic
is something that is pretty inherent
to be driven by a pen and tablet
and not by a huge control surface.
So I'll try to stick
to the usage of image
as it is intended,
just to show you a different way
on how to deal with this.
But, honestly,
I tend to go to the schematic
quite a lot because I use it
for the G mask tracer.
I use it for action
and I am familiar with it.
So if you hit the tilde key,
you can see our relationship diagram
build up like we would have done it
in action ourselves.
But this is all built under the hood.
So this is why I'm
showing this to you. Now.
I want you to see that
even though you're
using different methods,
this is just action under the hood.
So you've got a surface,
you apply shaders to the surface
and you've got maps
driving those selections.
So from now on, you'll constantly
see me going back to the schematic
just to illustrate, to show you
what is happening under the hood.
Also,
this is a great failsafe mechanism.
If you get lost
or if you play around with this and
you accidentally created
something you don't want to
and you don't know how to delete it
or how to disable it,
you can always go back
to your knowledge of action
and just use those techniques
so you can cut connections
like you're used to
from your action schematic.
You can reconnect, you can hide
elements and so on and so on.
I think you get the idea.
Let's continue by adding
another selective and color.
Correct her face a bit more.
So going to the selective controls
menu,
which is here.
I can now choose to add a second
selective like that.
And like before that is fresh.
There's not yet
any method defined on how we want to
actually separate our image
or parts of our image from the rest.
Okay.
So for this,
I would like to use the diamond here.
So I'm going to go to the keyers
And one thing I wanted to show you,
because this is something
I constantly do Nuke,
and that is to view
the individual channels.
So to do that,
you're going to use almost exactly
the same hotkeys as inside of Nuke,
which is.
RG and B for each individual channel
inside a Flame,
you just have to use shift R
for the red channel,
Shift G for the Green channel
and shift B for the blue channel.
So as you might have already expected
from the plane, IGP view,
the Blue channel is our best
bet to get a proper matte extracted
or the blue range of the image.
So how do we deal with that?
Well, making sure my,
selective too is selected.
I'm actually going to activate
the diamond here.
This little guy here
that you already know
from the color pop like so.
So now I can go about this exactly
the same way as I would
in the color warper.
I could select a preset like Cyan,
but I don't see anything.
how can I actually see my matte?
Well, for that
I have to hit F8 and see
my selective matte view,
and that can
then be refined from here.
What I can also do
if I hit F8 twice
is actually get an overlay
of that matte onto my image,
which might make things a little bit
easier.
So let's see if we can find that
a little bit more.
Could also
try to pick our custom color.
But I think
the selection
we had actually wasn't too bad.
If we go back to F14
and then F8 for the overlay,
we catch quite a lot of that.
There are two more things
I want to do.
I want to soften this up a little bit
and then I want to constrain it
by an additional T mask.
So let's start by blurring this,
something like that,
and then I want to apply it.
You must do this as well.
So going back to my result view,
I can either click in the image,
I can also click on my heart
here, right click and add a mask link
with link, meaning that the t mask
will automatically be linked to that.
And I just picked
so now I'm going to go with free
instead of Ellipse
and that allows me to draw a G mask
like I would in the G mask tracer
So I'm going to go with this now.
Something like that, kill that,
point up there, something like that.
So let's get back to F eight
to see if our Matt works
and we'll see not what we expect.
So if we sat through this,
you see the flat image,
but we don't see
our overlay combined
with our diamond keyer.
Why is that?
Well, if we head back to the result
view and take a look at the HUD,
you see that
our correct selective is selected.
That is the selective to Diamond,
but also our G mask is selected.
So we just got the view of the G mask
and of itself in the viewer.
If we want to see the result
of the diamond keyer
and the G mask to combined,
we need to select
the selective itself
and then head over to the F8 view.
And there we get what we expect.
So now we can refine this a bit more.
Let's bring this over here.
Let's also add a gradient point
to further this up,
something like that.
And then of course,
if we shuttled through this clip,
we see
we need to animate that matter.
We can do that manually
or like with any other G mask
in action or the G mass tracer,
we can, of course, check that.
So let's try that.
And I'm
actually choosing to track the axis
so I could go to the schematic
and choose it there.
I can also pick the tab up here
and select rotation and scale
to have two points
and enter the tracker.
And then I'm just going to do
a quick track on her eyes
like, So
let's see if that sticks.
Something like that
just hit the adjust offset
to bring it back into place.
And now
yeah, we could probably smoothen
out the scale and rotation
in the channel.
Editor Let's quickly do that.
So going in over here,
just selecting access
to rotation and scaling,
holding down shift to select
both the rotation and the scaling,
and then with average selected here,
I'm going to smoothen those out.
So as a constrain matte,
that should work for grading.
Okay, great.
So with that
we can finally get back to color
correct this.
So going to the result View
Diamond two is selected.
I'm going to go to Master grade two.
It's really helpful that image names
these all accordingly.
So G Mask two, access
to master grade to
are all tied to selective two.
So of course
at one point that might break,
but as much as possible
image will try to keep those numbers
sensible so
to indicate which belongs to which.
And once again, if you falter,
if you're not sure which axis which
you mask you are actually working
on, always go back to the schematic.
I think this is something
that as a new artist
you'll probably understand.
And the easiest.
All right, master grade to select it.
And now we can adjust this skin tone.
So maybe you will try to bring it
a little bit
more in on the lively side,
something like that.
Lets hide that for a minute.
Yeah, I think this isn't too bad.
So the
last thing I want to show you in
this class is how to properly label
your individual selector.
So that's pretty easy.
Just by right clicking in here,
we can rename this
vignette
like so.
So now this is properly labeled
and if we go to the second one,
you could also use
the object window down here.
So if you don't want to call this
diamond, which just refers to the key
instead of the actual object
in the image,
you could call this face
like so.
Okay, so I'm going to close this
class out now, and in the next class
we're going to continue
our exploration
of the image tool, said.
And then we'll also take a look
at some other means
on how to separate your image.
So we'll take a look at the machine
learning inside of Flame
and also 3D areas,
which could be pretty exciting.
So thank you so much for watching.
Until next time. Bye bye.